# Comp330-CPD

## Week 1 - Beginning 24th September
First week back at university and we are straight back into the action, we had a lecture with Ed on development for the NES, I found this really interesting to learn about the constraints and the old archetecture for such an old console. We had a lecture with Gareth who introduced us to what we'd be doing with him which was to make Java applications for a website we'd be creating, I have a few ideas for what I want to make. Java is so useful these days because it is so widely used for many aspects. My new team for making a game this year all met up and we talked about ideas and started prototyping, the ideas were a bit all over the place, we have to narrow them down. My biggest struggle this week was trying to understand the complexity of the NES constraints, to improve this I will read into some of the resources Ed has given us to gain more knowledge about this topic.

## Week 2 - Beginning 1st October
This week our team came up with some mechanics we are going to use in our game, so the programmers started trying to make them, I was tasked with creating an x-ray mechanic, a limb removal mechanic and limb pinning mechanic, these were fairly challenging to make but I got there in the end. Also this week we were supposed to have our dissertation proposal written, I have chosen to see if I can make games more accessible for the elderly in care homes, I think this will be fun to try and create something so more users can play video games. My biggest struggle this week was the dissertation proposal because I struggled to find lots of relevant sources and I'm not too big on writing which is a shame because it has to be several thousand words long, the only way I feel I can improve this is to keep trying and try searching for different key words even though the literature I can find is scarce. Gareth had a lecture which told how us to make technical portfolios using Java and HTML, I found this very useful as web development is something I'm interested in pursuing after university for a while.

## Week 3 - Beginning 8th October
This week we had to do our NES de-make proposals, I chose Gears of War because I thought the shooting and melee would be doable with the constraints that are limiting us. Gareth went into more details this week on making games in Java. Ed has set us the task of coming up with an idea and proposal of what game we would like to de-make for the NES. We had a lecture for dissertation on research philisophies, this confused me a little bit as I didn't fully understand the purpose of it. For our team game we started combining some of the ideas we were working on to get them into a cohesive whole. The other programmer was working on a mobile prototype as that was something we were thinking about. My biggest struggle this week was presenting my de-make proposal, presenting has never been my strong point I just get too nervous, but it went alright, I'm unsure as to how to improve on this, I feel the only way I really can is to gain more confidence and I guess doing presentations more often would help but we don't have them too often.

## Week 4 - Beginning 15th October
This week Gareth showed us technology demos and applications in Javascript, I find this Javascript module very stimulating as the uses of the language are very broad, the applications and technology demos he showed us were cool like the beat maker, to make these small types of applications is something I can see myself doing in the future. Ed took us through the first steps in programming for the NES, by the looks of things this module could end up being very challenging. For dissertation this week we got taught how to write up a good hypothesis and we got told we should write our own one for next week. For our team game I developed a system where you can pick up guns, it's not very good as it was rushed and the weapons all shot the same types of guns, I plan on scrapping it if we use it for the final game and coming up with a completely new system which will work more to the way we need it to. My biggest struggle this week was trying to write some of my own NES code, I feel like the more time I spend doing it and looking at it the more it makes sense, I'll try to do some of this every week to gain more information and hopefully be able to write my own code without the help of the live code.

## Week 5 - Beginning 22nd October
This week we had a peer review for Gareths module on Javascript applications, I have developed a very simple game in which the player can move all over the screen and there is an enemy which moves to the player position and the player can shoot the enemie and he will respawn. I want to expand on this or switch it up a little so it is for 2 players, I have lots of ideas for Javascript games but I don't have enough time, this will be one of the things I continue to do when I have the time. Mike had a lecture on ethics which interests me as I am always keen to see how different people view ethics and what is acceptable. Ed took us through more NES programming, I should start trying to have a game but I keep putting it off this is one of the things I am worst at doing!!! For our team game we have decided to go for a FPS set in the Wild West which will make use of some of the mechanics I prototyped, so we chucked some mechanics into a build together and begun development. To improve on me putting off work I should try to schedule my time, I've tried this before for a few weeks and it worked well but I always end up stopping, this is something I can't do.

## Week 6 - Beginning 29th October
This week is reading week, I did some of my dissertation, I find this very hard to do because my writing ability isn't very good and we have to read so many papers which is something I struggle to do as I get very tired reading lots of papers, I should get my eyes checked out to see if I need glasses. This week I don't think I touched NES or Javascript which is really bad of me, time managment of my modules is one of my biggest downfalls. This week I developed a proper gun system mechanic for our game which allows full control over all the variables we need for the weapons and makes it easy to add in more when we need to. To improve on my dissertation sturggles I should have been doing just a little bit every day so it didn't seem like as much work, this is something I'll try and take on next term when we have to do the next half of it.

## Week 7 - Beginning 5th November
This week we had to present for our dissertations what we had found out so far, again as I mentioned in previous weeks I hate presentations as I get too nervous even though I am always well prepared, I forget what to say and talk too quickly. I didn't attend Ed's session on NES because I opted to go to the studio and work on his live code on 2 monitors as the extra monitor makes it so much easier to follow along with the code. Gareth gave us one of the most useful lectures he ever has and it was on how to make technical posters, he showed us all the things he expects us to have in it and the best cases we can use them in. Our team game has been making good progress as per usual, our team flow is the best I've ever been involved in and it is raising my morale and I am actually happy and look forward to working on our game this year. For presenting I mentioned how to improve it in the weeks before.

## Week 8 - Beginning 12th November
This week we had our final peer review for Gareths module, I have been slacking on it because I've had too many ideas and didn't focus on one of them I was working on all these little games so what I submit isn't going to be my best piece of work, although when I get free time I want to make lots of these little games so I can add them to my portfolio. Again I didn't go to Ed's lecture because I prefer working on my NES game using 2 monitors and haven't run into any issues so far. We had a dissertation peer review and although I've only done a few thousand words I got good enough feedback, they said to keep up the work, this confused me quite a lot as I was so sure it was all very bad, I wish I got some more constructive feedback on what to improve. Again team game progress is very smooth, the game feels fun to play and that's what makes me the happiest. Biggest struggle this week was trying to cram a javascript game in time, time management is my number one enemy, I always fall into the same traps of leaving work until the last minute, I really should try organise my time with a calendar, for next term I'll buy myself a whiteboard and schedule my time outside of university on it.

## Week 9 - Beginning 19th November
This week was the last week to work on NES, I hate how close all the deadlines are together, I've finally started to enjoy working on the NES because I spent lots of time working on it and understand the code, however I ran into 1 huge issue, I've realised my game can only have 2 sets of collisions before it breaks so I've added the code and tested it out for the other collisions but I've made it work with only the 2 most important sets of collisions, unfortunately this was after peer review so it was too late to ask for feedback. With dissertation we got introduced to R programming, this is a programming language to help us with statistics to analyze our data. I struggled with the R programming as I don't see it's full potential at the minute, I have been very stressed as there is so much work needing done in such a short space of time, I should read into the notes on R to see what it is actually capaible of and how to actually use it, I should also sign up to the doctor to help with my stress. As usual our team game continues to move smoothly, some real progress has been made.

## Week 10 - Beginning 26th November
I've accepted my fate that my dissertation is going to be no where near as good as I could have made it, I spend so much time this week in bed, I have been feeling extremely down I should probably have gone to see the doctor but I haven't even signed up to one yet, this is something I must do ASAP. I crammed too much of my dissertation in this week and didn't have enough time to get meaningful feedback. I spent some time on Monday commenting and finishing up some final changes on my NES game, I will actually miss this module. I will not miss dissertation, I have never been one for academic papers. I didn't do any work on the team game this week but the team understand because we've already made so much progress. My biggest struggle this week was just getting out of bed. Feeling down and depressed is something I've suffered with for a while and I've spoken to student services but I should go and sign up for the doctor in case I ever needed an EC.

## Week 11 - Beginning 3rd December
This week we got taught how to interpret out data for dissertation once we collect it, I don't find these lectures too useful as they are very broad, I'd prefer it if the dissertation leader would sit down with you individually or with all their people they look at and discuss with them more in depth. I was feeling quite down and worried about failing my dissertation but what's done is done, if I have to redo it then I don't mind too much. Only got the team game and artefact to work on now, I should have started my artefact but the team for our game has been putting in lots of work to get it at a stage we are happy to submit it before Chistmas. This week my biggest struggle was finding the motivation to try and keep my work up to a reasonable standard, as mentioned above I should sign up to the doctor, this would take a massive weight off my back and I would feel a lot less stressed if I knew I had the option for ECs.

## Week 12 - Beginning 10th December
This week was the last week before Christmas, I made a little bit of progress on my artefact I went to see Al and he helped me with some Arduino bits & bobs and taught me how to solder, this will be a good skill to use when I need to solder some things together in future if I ever need to and on the plus side it was quite fun. We made some last minute changes to our team game to get it to where most of us where happy to hand it in, this is the best game I've worked on at my time at university, I want this game to turn out well in the end so we can potentially sell it and get us some exposure. We had to make a poster showcasing certain aspects about the game and Gareths lecture on poster making came in so handy, we had to make the poster as a group and then highlight our individual contributions seperately. This poster was very easy to make and looked nice as well which I guess is a plus. My biggest struggle this week was trying to play beat saber, some of the songs go mad fast, I will try to improve on this by playing some evry week and mastering all the songs ;) 

## Career Goals
 Once I leave university I plan on moving to a city where there are lots of jobs available to me. I want to get a part time job to support my living situation while in my spare time working on Javascript applications as well as phone applications and games and mainly focusing on becomming a web developer. I hope to be able to get work as a freelance developer while I'm working on building up my portfolio. In the meantime I haven't had too much time to work towards these goals, I am mainly going to focus on this after I have finished with university as I feel I don't currently have the time to do it. I have purchased courses on web development and plan on completing them with all the free time I have. I don't really feel like working on triple A games is right for me anymore. TBC
 
 ## Five key skills to improve 
 ## 1 - Time Managment
 ## 2 - Sticking to my tasks
 ## 3 - Knowing when to take a break
 ## 4 - 
 ## 5 - 
